evaluation_pipeline/finetune/README.md, before:

# Finetune

This folder contains 5 different python files

## Classifier model

The `classifier_model.py` file contains the classifier head class as well as the Model joining the HF model to the classifier head. You are free to edit the classifier head or use the one provided. In addition the `ModelForSequenceClassification` class can be integrated to a HF repository with a few changes (such as parent class and initialization). In addition, the model has the flag `take_final` which dictates whether to take the first (CLS/BOS) or last token of to make the prediction.

## Dataset

The `dataset.py` file handles the creation of the dataset. It handles how to parse a file depending on the task. In case you want to add a new task, edit `match`, `case` in the init. Look at the load function to understand how to create your own task style.

## Trainer

The `trainer.py` contiains the `Trainer` class responsible for training, evaluating, and saving your model, as well as doing the predictions.

## Utils

The `utils.py` file contains utility functions such as seeding and the cosine scheduler.

## Run

The `run.py` file is the main file you will interact with. It does the training as well as evaluation and prediction. It has a variety of flags and hyperparameters that can be set. Here is the list of all the flags available:

```python
parser.add_argument("--results_dir", default="results", type=pathlib.Path, help="The output directory where the results will be written.")
parser.add_argument("--train_data", default="glue/data/mnli.subs.jsonl", type=pathlib.Path, help="Path to file containing the training dataset, we expect it to be in a JSONL format.")
parser.add_argument("--model_name_or_path", default="ltg/gpt-bert-babylm-small", type=pathlib.Path, help="The local path to the model binary.")
parser.add_argument("--metrics", default=["accuracy"], nargs='+', help="List of metrics to evaluate for the model (accuracy, f1, and mcc).", choices=["accuracy", "f1", "mcc"])
parser.add_argument("--num_labels", default=3, type=int, help="The number of labels in the dataset. (3 for MNLI, 2 for all other tasks)")
parser.add_argument("--seed", default=42, type=int, help="The seed for the Random Number Generator.")
parser.add_argument("--task", default="mnli", type=str, help="The task to fine-tune for.")

# Optinal Parameters
parser.add_argument("--ema_decay", default=0.0, type=float, help="If using EMA, this is the decay rate per step. (If it is 0 then there is no ema_decay)")
parser.add_argument("--verbose", action=argparse.BooleanOptionalAction, default=False, help="Whether to output the metrics in terminal during the run.")
parser.add_argument("--valid_data", type=pathlib.Path, help="Path to file containing the validation dataset to validate on, we expect it to be in a JSONL format.")
parser.add_argument("--predict_data", type=pathlib.Path, help="Path to file containing the dataset to predict on, we expect it to be in a JSONL format.")
parser.add_argument("--save", action=argparse.BooleanOptionalAction, default=False, help="Whether to save the fine-tuned model.")
parser.add_argument("--save_dir", default="finetuned-models", type=pathlib.Path, help="The directory in which to save the fine-tuned model.")
parser.add_argument("--keep_best_model", action=argparse.BooleanOptionalAction, default=True, help="Whether to keep the model with the best score based on the metric_for_valid. (If False, then the model at the end of fine-tuning will be used for eval and prediction)")
parser.add_argument("--metric_for_valid", type=str, help="The metric used to compare the model when finding the best model.", choices=["accuracy", "mcc", "f1"])
parser.add_argument("--higher_is_better", action=argparse.BooleanOptionalAction, default=True, help="Wheter a higher value for the metric for valid is better or not.")
parser.add_argument("--revision_name", default=None, type=str, help="Name of the checkpoint/version of the model to test. (If None, the main will be used)")

# Hyperparameters
parser.add_argument("--batch_size", default=16, type=int, help="The batch size for each step during fine-tuning.")
parser.add_argument("--gradient_accumulation", default=1, type=int, help="The number of graident accumualtion steps to do, to reach the desired batch size (needs to divide the batch size argument).")
parser.add_argument("--valid_batch_size", default=64, type=int, help="The batch size during inference.")
parser.add_argument("--learning_rate", default=3e-5, type=float, help="The maximum learning rate during fine-tuning.")
parser.add_argument("--sequence_length", default=512, type=int, help="The max sequence length before truncation.")
parser.add_argument("--num_epochs", default=10, type=int, help="Number of epochs to fine-tune the code for.")
parser.add_argument("--classifier_dropout", default=0.1, type=float, help="The dropout applied to the classifier head. (Needs to be a value between 0 and 1)")
parser.add_argument("--classifier_layer_norm_eps", default=1.0e-5, type=float, help="The epsilon to add to the layer norm operations to stabalize the division and avoid dividing by zero.")
parser.add_argument("--weight_decay", default=0.01, type=float, help="The weight decay to apply for the optimizer (if a weight decay is relevant). (Needs to be a value between 0 and 1)")
parser.add_argument("--warmup_proportion", default=0.06, type=float, help="The proportion of the fine-tuning steps where the learning rate increases from 0 to its maximum value. (Needs to be a value between 0 and 1)")
parser.add_argument("--min_factor", default=0.1, type=float, help="The final factor to which the max learning rate is multiplied to find the final learning rate.")
parser.add_argument("--scheduler", default="cosine", type=str, help="The learning rate scheduler to use for fine-tuning. none means that no learning rate scheduling was chosen.", choices=["cosine", "none"])  # Not implemented
parser.add_argument("--optimizer", default="adamw", type=str, help="The optimizer to use for the fine-tuning of the model.", choices=["adamw", "adam"])  # Not implemented
parser.add_argument("--beta1", default=0.9, type=float, help="The value of beta1 (or beta) in optimizers that require it.")
parser.add_argument("--beta2", default=0.999, type=float, help="The value of beta2 in optimizers that require it.")
parser.add_argument("--optimizer_eps", default=1e-8, type=float, help="The epsilon to add to the optimizer operations (if relevant) to stabalize and avoid dividing by zero.")
parser.add_argument("--amsgrad", default=False, action=argparse.BooleanOptionalAction, help="Whether to use AMSGrad variant of the AdamW optimizer. (Only relevant if adamw chosen for optimizer)")
parser.add_argument("--causal", default=False, action=argparse.BooleanOptionalAction, help="Whether to use causal masking")
parser.add_argument("--take_final", default=False, action=argparse.BooleanOptionalAction, help="Whether to take the last token rather than the first one.")

# W&B parameters
parser.add_argument("--wandb", action=argparse.BooleanOptionalAction, default=False, help="Flag to activate W&B logging.")
parser.add_argument("--wandb_project", type=str, default="BabyLM Finetuning", help="The name of the project to log to. By default this is BabyLM Finetuning.")
parser.add_argument("--wandb_entity", type=str, default=None, help="The name of the user/organization on W&B to log to.")
parser.add_argument("--exp_name", type=str, default=None, help="The name of the run as it appears on W&B. By default this is: 'model_name_task_seed'")
```

Commit message:

[readme] Updated all the READMEs to include info on the encoder-decoder models.

evaluation_pipeline/finetune/README.md, after:

# Finetune

This folder contains 5 different python files

## Classifier model

The `classifier_model.py` file contains the classifier head class as well as the Model joining the HF model to the classifier head. You are free to edit the classifier head or use the one provided. In addition the `ModelForSequenceClassification` class can be integrated to a HF repository with a few changes (such as parent class and initialization). In addition, the model has the flag `take_final` which dictates whether to take the first (CLS/BOS) or last token of to make the prediction.

## Dataset

The `dataset.py` file handles the creation of the dataset. It handles how to parse a file depending on the task. In case you want to add a new task, edit `match`, `case` in the init. Look at the load function to understand how to create your own task style.

## Trainer

The `trainer.py` contiains the `Trainer` class responsible for training, evaluating, and saving your model, as well as doing the predictions.

## Utils

The `utils.py` file contains utility functions such as seeding and the cosine scheduler.

## Run

The `run.py` file is the main file you will interact with. It does the training as well as evaluation and prediction. It has a variety of flags and hyperparameters that can be set. Here is the list of all the flags available:

```python
parser.add_argument("--results_dir", default="results", type=pathlib.Path, help="The output directory where the results will be written.")
parser.add_argument("--train_data", default="glue/data/mnli.subs.jsonl", type=pathlib.Path, help="Path to file containing the training dataset, we expect it to be in a JSONL format.")
parser.add_argument("--model_name_or_path", default="ltg/gpt-bert-babylm-small", type=pathlib.Path, help="The local path to the model binary.")
parser.add_argument("--metrics", default=["accuracy"], nargs='+', help="List of metrics to evaluate for the model (accuracy, f1, and mcc).", choices=["accuracy", "f1", "mcc"])
parser.add_argument("--num_labels", default=3, type=int, help="The number of labels in the dataset. (3 for MNLI, 2 for all other tasks)")
parser.add_argument("--seed", default=42, type=int, help="The seed for the Random Number Generator.")
parser.add_argument("--task", default="mnli", type=str, help="The task to fine-tune for.")

# Optinal Parameters
parser.add_argument("--ema_decay", default=0.0, type=float, help="If using EMA, this is the decay rate per step. (If it is 0 then there is no ema_decay)")
parser.add_argument("--verbose", action=argparse.BooleanOptionalAction, default=False, help="Whether to output the metrics in terminal during the run.")
parser.add_argument("--valid_data", type=pathlib.Path, help="Path to file containing the validation dataset to validate on, we expect it to be in a JSONL format.")
parser.add_argument("--predict_data", type=pathlib.Path, help="Path to file containing the dataset to predict on, we expect it to be in a JSONL format.")
parser.add_argument("--save", action=argparse.BooleanOptionalAction, default=False, help="Whether to save the fine-tuned model.")
parser.add_argument("--save_dir", default="finetuned-models", type=pathlib.Path, help="The directory in which to save the fine-tuned model.")
parser.add_argument("--keep_best_model", action=argparse.BooleanOptionalAction, default=True, help="Whether to keep the model with the best score based on the metric_for_valid. (If False, then the model at the end of fine-tuning will be used for eval and prediction)")
parser.add_argument("--metric_for_valid", type=str, help="The metric used to compare the model when finding the best model.", choices=["accuracy", "mcc", "f1"])
parser.add_argument("--higher_is_better", action=argparse.BooleanOptionalAction, default=True, help="Wheter a higher value for the metric for valid is better or not.")
parser.add_argument("--revision_name", default=None, type=str, help="Name of the checkpoint/version of the model to test. (If None, the main will be used)")

# Hyperparameters
parser.add_argument("--batch_size", default=16, type=int, help="The batch size for each step during fine-tuning.")
parser.add_argument("--gradient_accumulation", default=1, type=int, help="The number of graident accumualtion steps to do, to reach the desired batch size (needs to divide the batch size argument).")
parser.add_argument("--valid_batch_size", default=64, type=int, help="The batch size during inference.")
parser.add_argument("--learning_rate", default=3e-5, type=float, help="The maximum learning rate during fine-tuning.")
parser.add_argument("--sequence_length", default=512, type=int, help="The max sequence length before truncation.")
parser.add_argument("--num_epochs", default=10, type=int, help="Number of epochs to fine-tune the code for.")
parser.add_argument("--classifier_dropout", default=0.1, type=float, help="The dropout applied to the classifier head. (Needs to be a value between 0 and 1)")
parser.add_argument("--classifier_layer_norm_eps", default=1.0e-5, type=float, help="The epsilon to add to the layer norm operations to stabalize the division and avoid dividing by zero.")
parser.add_argument("--weight_decay", default=0.01, type=float, help="The weight decay to apply for the optimizer (if a weight decay is relevant). (Needs to be a value between 0 and 1)")
parser.add_argument("--warmup_proportion", default=0.06, type=float, help="The proportion of the fine-tuning steps where the learning rate increases from 0 to its maximum value. (Needs to be a value between 0 and 1)")
parser.add_argument("--min_factor", default=0.1, type=float, help="The final factor to which the max learning rate is multiplied to find the final learning rate.")
parser.add_argument("--scheduler", default="cosine", type=str, help="The learning rate scheduler to use for fine-tuning. none means that no learning rate scheduling was chosen.", choices=["cosine", "none"])  # Not implemented
parser.add_argument("--optimizer", default="adamw", type=str, help="The optimizer to use for the fine-tuning of the model.", choices=["adamw", "adam"])  # Not implemented
parser.add_argument("--beta1", default=0.9, type=float, help="The value of beta1 (or beta) in optimizers that require it.")
parser.add_argument("--beta2", default=0.999, type=float, help="The value of beta2 in optimizers that require it.")
parser.add_argument("--optimizer_eps", default=1e-8, type=float, help="The epsilon to add to the optimizer operations (if relevant) to stabalize and avoid dividing by zero.")
parser.add_argument("--amsgrad", default=False, action=argparse.BooleanOptionalAction, help="Whether to use AMSGrad variant of the AdamW optimizer. (Only relevant if adamw chosen for optimizer)")
parser.add_argument("--causal", default=False, action=argparse.BooleanOptionalAction, help="Whether to use causal masking")
parser.add_argument("--take_final", default=False, action=argparse.BooleanOptionalAction, help="Whether to take the last token rather than the first one.")
parser.add_argument("--enc_dec", default=False, action=argparse.BooleanOptionalAction, help="Flag to indicate that the architecture is an encoder-decoder.")

# W&B parameters
parser.add_argument("--wandb", action=argparse.BooleanOptionalAction, default=False, help="Flag to activate W&B logging.")
parser.add_argument("--wandb_project", type=str, default="BabyLM Finetuning", help="The name of the project to log to. By default this is BabyLM Finetuning.")
parser.add_argument("--wandb_entity", type=str, default=None, help="The name of the user/organization on W&B to log to.")
parser.add_argument("--exp_name", type=str, default=None, help="The name of the run as it appears on W&B. By default this is: 'model_name_task_seed'")
```
